Mlucassen/traveling salesman (#10)
microsoft/qio-samples: samples/traveling-salesman/README.md

---
page_type: sample
languages:
- python
author: Maximilian Lucassen
ms.author: t-mlucassen@microsoft.com
ms.date: 4/9/2021
products:
- azure-quantum
- azure-qio
description: "Solve the traveling salesman problem with Azure Quantum optimization service"
urlFragment: azure-quantum.traveling-salesman
---

# Solving the traveling salesman problem with the Azure Quantum optimization service

## Introduction

This sample provides a comprehensive walkthrough of the traveling salesman problem, from problem definition to formulation of penalty functions and finally solving the problem using the Azure Quantum Optimization Service.

By working through this sample, you will learn:

- What the traveling salesman problem is and why it is important
- How to represent problem terms mathematically
- How to build penalty functions to represent problem constraints
- How to build an objective function to minimize the makespan
- How to transform these mathematical functions into code using the Azure Quantum Optimization Python SDK
- How to submit problem terms to Azure Quantum
- How to interpret the results
- How to validate the results

> - How to tune the solver parameters

Reviewer: Please update these points to accurately reflect what points are covered in the sample

Reviewer: (see the other samples for examples)

## Prerequisites

1. [Create an Azure Quantum Workspace](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/how-to-create-quantum-workspaces-with-the-azure-portal)
2. [Install the `azure-quantum` Python module](https://docs.microsoft.com/azure/quantum/how-to-use-the-python-sdk)
3. (If you want to run the Jupyter notebook) [Install Jupyter Notebook](https://jupyter.org/install)

## Running the sample

> There are two ways to run the sample:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are three ways to run the sample:
```

- [Jupyter Notebook (full sample walkthrough)](./traveling-salesman.ipynb)
- [Python script (barebones annotations)](./traveling-salesman.py)

> - [Html script (more readable)](./traveling-salesman.html)

Reviewer: Would recommend adding some instructions on what to do with the HTML page and perhaps a screenshot of the end result, so users know what to expect

### Running the Jupyter Notebook

To run this sample, use the commandline to navigate to the `traveling-salesman` folder and run `jupyter notebook`

Your web browser should automatically open a new window showing something similar to the below:

![Jupyter Notebook landing page](./media/traveling-salesman.png)

If this doesn't happen, copy the localhost link shown in the terminal window and paste it into your browser's address bar.

Once you see the page above, simply click on the `traveling-salesman.ipynb` link to open the sample notebook.

### Running the Python script

- Open up the `traveling-salesman.py` script using your favorite IDE or a text editor.
- Fill in your Azure Quantum workspace details at the beginning of the script.
- Run the script through your IDE or use the commandline to navigate to the `traveling-salesman` folder and then run `python ./traveling-salesman.py` or `python3 ./traveling-salesman.py` (depending on how your environment is set up).

### Manifest

> - **[job-shop-sample.ipynb](https://github.com/microsoft/qio-samples/blob/main/samples/traveling-salesman/traveling-salesman.ipynb)**: Jupyter Notebook version of this sample.
> - **[job-shop-sample.py](https://github.com/microsoft/qio-samples/blob/main/samples/traveling-salesman/traveling-salesman.py)**: Standalone Python version of this sample.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **[traveling-salesman.ipynb](https://github.com/microsoft/qio-samples/blob/main/samples/traveling-salesman/traveling-salesman.ipynb)**: Jupyter Notebook version of this sample.
- **[traveling-salesman.py](https://github.com/microsoft/qio-samples/blob/main/samples/traveling-salesman/traveling-salesman.py)**: Standalone Python version of this sample.
- **[traveling-salesman.html](https://github.com/microsoft/qio-samples/blob/main/samples/traveling-salesman/traveling-salesman.html)**: HTML version of this sample.
```
